Good morning.
My name is Andy Carol.
I'm an engineer here at Apple,
and this session is Spotlight:
Search and Be Searched.
What does it mean to
search and be searched?
A lot of your applications already
search or could benefit from search.
Installers want to know where are
previous versions of applications.
Productivity apps want
to know where fonts,
sounds, and other files.
A lot of programs can benefit from this.
And be searched.
Your customers want to be
able to find your data.
How can you help them find your data?
Let Spotlight do that.
Let Spotlight help your
customers find your data,
and let Spotlight help your programs
find the data that they're looking for.
But what is Spotlight?
It's a lot of things.
Spotlight is a top-to-bottom search
facility built into the system.
It's part of the user experience in the
most common areas that the user works.
It's also expandable.
It's designed to bring your data
into that search capability,
and it provides mechanisms for
your programs to be able to find
the data that they're looking for.
Let's take a look at that
in a little bit more detail.
At its core,
Spotlight is basically a server
with a database attached to it.
And it has a database that
contains a lot of information.
The most important information
is the metadata storage.
Let's talk about that a little bit.
What is metadata?
Metadata is information
about information.
Let's take a look at a good example.
The Finder info window is probably
the most common user visible
source of metadata in the system.
Let's take a look at a
little bit more detail.
From this,
we can see the size of the photograph.
We can see that the photograph
was taken with a Panasonic camera.
And the exposure time
is 1/125 of a second.
Now,
this information isn't the photograph,
but it's information
about the photograph.
And it's the kind of information
that your users would want to
use to find that photograph.
Let's take a look at how that's
implemented in the system.
It's very simple.
It's key value pairs.
We have an attribute and we have a value.
For example, the...
Pixel size, the file name, et cetera,
are all attributes,
and they typically are named KMDItem
followed by whatever value is appropriate
for the information being described.
You can store not only
information like this,
but you can internationalize it.
Information can be provided
rather than as a flat value.
It can be provided as a dictionary.
And that dictionary can be keyed by
the localization code so that users
around the world can see the appropriate
information for that metadata.
But Spotlight is more than metadata.
It's also content.
Content from your files.
The KMDItmTextContent field represents
all of the user searchable text that
would be found in a particular file.
Now for a text file,
this is pretty obvious.
You provide the content of the text file.
Spotlight will let people search for
words and phrases in that content.
But it can be more than that.
A lot of files don't really have
text content in the traditional sense
but they have a lot of value that
can be construed as text content,
song lyrics.
Or for example, a CAD program might have
descriptions for each room and the
descriptions could be concatenated
and searched from the content index.
It's important to note that
this information is writable,
that is it can be
imported into the system,
and you can perform queries against it.
But it's not generally easy to fetch
back the text content of a file.
It's used only for searching.
Spotlight also has a built-in
UI that a lot of users interact with.
This is the Spotlight menu, the Finder,
and File/Save/Load dialogs.
It's also extendable.
We do this with another part of the
architecture called the importers.
And the importer has plugins.
There are plugins to bring in
each common file type already
provided with the system.
We have a list here.
It's pretty comprehensive: images,
sounds, video, file formats for text,
etc.
But the one thing that's
missing is your data.
And we're going to talk
today about how to get your
application's data into Spotlight.
We do that by your providing a
plug-in for your users that will
know how to index your data files
so that your customers can find data
that's created with your program.
[Transcript missing]
Now let's take a look at the info.p list.
This is sort of the core file
in your project that describes
the capabilities of what you're
building to the rest of the system.
And there's one important field
that we're going to want to edit.
It's the supported UTI type.
We need to define a UTI type for
the kind of data that your importer,
plug-in, is going to process.
What is a UTI type?
It's a uniform type identifier.
This lets the system know in a
universal way what kind of file you
have and what its capabilities are.
There's a naming convention for this.
It's basically your
domain name backwards.
This is done to prevent collisions
with other companies' data types and to
make it so that there's no bureaucracy.
You can choose a UTI type that's
appropriate for your file without
clearing it with anyone else.
There's one exception.
UTIs that start with the word "public"
are meant for the simple built-in
data types that are universal and
not owned by any one application.
And public is reserved for Apple.
Apple's the only source for
UTI types that start with public.
But anything with your domain
name is yours to work with.
Now how do we declare these?
Really, it's your application
that owns the UTI type.
So it's important that your application
declare the types of files that
it--that it's going to be using.
It's important that your
application export your UTI type.
That makes it the authority
for the rest of the system on
the behavior for that UTI type.
What application is launched
when you double-click on it?
What icon does it have?
This is all very important information,
and your app is the final authority.
But what about when you have an importer
plug-in for Spotlight and you're not
sure if your app is going to be there?
Your plug-in can also declare
the UTI type for the system,
but instead of exporting it,
your app will import it.
And that's just as good to the system.
The system will know
everything about the UTI type,
but the system also knows that
this is a fallback declaration,
and that if your app is present,
the application will take precedence.
So it's a good idea to import one
for your plug-in as a fallback.
So now we go and we'll enter
in the UTI type made up one
for this particular plugin.
Now we have to talk about the schema.
A schema is metadata about metadata.
It describes the metadata
attributes that your plugin
will be providing to the system.
Now, the system provides quite a
few predefined attributes,
and you can define that your
plugin will provide them.
In this case, we're providing a title,
a comment, and other fields.
Now, you can also specify which fields
from your data types should
appear in Finder info windows.
So when the user opens an info window,
the bottom two fields,
the title and the comment,
are the fields they would
see from the Finder.
If you need to define
your own data types,
the schema.xml file contains
comments to describe how to define
your own data types and inform
the system as to their structure.
But we really recommend
that whenever possible,
you use the existing data types unless
there's really no way to describe
your content with the existing ones.
The last thing we have to do is
implement the callback function.
This is really the meat of the importer.
The callback function will be
called with a path to the file
the system wants to import,
and your plug-in will open the file,
Parse it or input it in
any way that's appropriate,
pulling out the attributes you
want to inform Spotlight about,
and then you'll put those
attributes with their values in the
dictionary that you're provided.
That dictionary will be sent back to
the server and users can now search
and find this specific file based on
the attributes that you've provided.
Kaelin will now give us a demo of how to
go ahead and build an importer plugin.
Good morning.
I'm Kaelin Colclasur.
And as Andy said,
what we'll be looking at doing this
morning is actually taking an existing
application and looking at how simple
it is to build an importer plug-in and
expose that application's content to
the user's desktop via its metadata.
For our demonstration here,
we started with a little
application called Fortunes.
For those of you with a
bit of a Unix-y background,
this is inspired by the classic
fortune cookie program that
shipped in Unix for decades now.
It basically allows the users to
accumulate a nice little collection
of witty sayings and store them away,
and then it can spit them out
when your terminal window logs
in or something like that.
So the classic Fortunes--
[Transcript missing]
Yay.
Sorry about that.
OK.
So our Fortunes application,
I'll go ahead and launch it here,
and as we see,
it gives us a nice little Cocoa table
view with a list of the Fortunes that
I've happened to put together so far.
Now for the purposes of making
this interesting content
to index with Spotlight,
I've actually,
instead of using sort of the
classic Fortunes file format,
where you have a single monolithic
file that has a simple text delimiter,
I use individual files to
store the Fortune data.
So let's go ahead and
look at one of those.
And we can see here this
is just a-- you know,
the standard XML plist format file.
And, um...
Each one of these files holds a
single entry in our Fortune database,
and we'll basically store individual
files like this every time we
add a new entry to the database.
So without further ado,
let's go ahead and see what it takes
to get that content indexed and
searchable from the Mac OS X desktop.
So the first thing we want to do in Xcode
is create a new Spotlight plugin project.
We just create a new project,
and we navigate down into our
Mac OS X standard Apple plug-in
section and select the
Spotlight plug-in template.
Choose that.
We're going to save it as Fortune Cookie.
And the actual target for this project
will be fortunecookie.mdimporter.
So now, as Andy mentioned,
one of the first things we'll need to do
with our new Fortune Cookie project is
update this Info.plist file to basically
expose to the system and launch services
the UTIs that this particular importer
is going to support and also declare to
the system what metadata elements are
going to be introduced by this importer.
So we'll double-click to edit that.
And as Andy was mentioning also,
one of the first things we want to do as
we edit our Info.plist is to make sure,
since we're building a
standalone importer project,
that we have an imported declaration
for our document UTI type.
So we'll go back to our application here,
actually open its Info.plist quickly,
and find its declaration
for exported UTI types.
And copy that.
Then switch back to our
Fortune Cookie project
and its InfoP list.
We're going to create a new
declaration here of imported UTI types.
And just by pasting there,
getting rid of the template,
if I expand this out,
we can see that this basically
contains the declaration of the
UTI tree that this particular content
conforms to and also declares what
extension we're going to use for
our files as we save them on disk.
With that out of the way,
we can move on to setting the actual
supported UTI type for this importer.
Now, your importer plug-ins can
actually handle multiple UTIs.
Like, if you have a document that has--
or if you have an application that
has more than one type of document,
you can handle all of those
with a single importer.
So this document types...
So the imported type UTIs that we're
going to edit here-- I'm sorry,
the document types we're going to
edit here actually declare an array.
of supported UTI types.
In this case,
we've got only a single type,
so we just fill that in.
example.fortune-cookie.
And with that done,
we're ready to save this file.
Okay,
the next thing we want to do is actually
edit our project so that we can use
Objective-C to implement our plugin.
To do that,
we need to add to our external
frameworks the existing metadata--
or the existing foundation framework.
is a great example of this.
He's a great example of how
to use Spotlight to create a
Go ahead and change the
extension of our source file.
We see here in the template
we have a standard source file
called getMetadataForFile.c.
We can just change that extension to .m,
and that sets us up to use Objective-C.
Click to edit that file,
and the first thing we want to do now is
go ahead and import foundation framework.
And then we can see here the
template includes enumeration
of the steps that we're actually
running through right here.
So we'll just come down and...
Paste in an implementation
for our importer here.
Since we're using Objective-C, we,
of course,
want to declare an auto-release pool,
and basically,
Our documents on disk consist of
a simple plist format that the
Foundation dictionary class has a
convenience method to read for us.
So we just call that convenience
method with the path that's passed
in when our importer is called.
And we fill in the attributes dictionary,
which is a mutable dictionary reference,
from the elements in our dictionary
that we want to include as
metadata for our document type.
If we succeed in loading the dictionary
and setting all those attributes,
we go ahead and are going to
set a status value to true,
which tells the Spotlight infrastructure
that this importer plug-in succeeded
for this particular document.
If there's any problem at all,
all you can do here is return false.
There's no UI or anything
presented from an importer plug-in.
So then we go ahead
and return that status,
and that's all there is to the plug-in.
Now, we do have one further
thing we need to do.
And you can notice here
we've -- in our plug-in,
we've basically -- we've basically used
a set of standard attributes that we
got from mditem.h that sort of captured
the essence of the metadata that we
wanted to have for each of our documents.
But for example purposes,
we're also going to go ahead
and define a custom attribute.
For a custom attribute,
you use the same sort of
reverse DNS naming convention
that you use for the UTI.
The notable exception is
where in a reverse DNS name,
you would have dots in the name,
you use underscores instead.
is key-value coding compliant for Cocoa.
Okay, so we're done with that file.
And now we can edit our schema to
go ahead and tell-- in the schema,
declare the same information we
just imported in our importer so
that Spotlight knows what to expect
when this importer plug-in is run.
So under Resources,
we have a schema.xml file.
And as the comment here says
in the attributes section,
You can put in any declarations of
custom attributes that you need.
Now, I would remind everyone, in general,
it's unusual for you to
need a custom attribute.
There's a pretty complete
set defined in mditem.h,
and that's definitely your first
place to look as you're defining the
metadata types for your document.
But again, for example purposes here,
we'll go ahead and define our custom
com example fortune ID attribute,
and we make it a single, simple,
single-valued attribute of type CFString.
And then the next thing we want to do
We've got an all adders element,
which if you remember from Andy's slides,
basically tells Spotlight all of
the attributes that are going to be
returned by this importer plugin.
It's not the correct declaration.
Let me just fix that real quick.
There we go.
Here we declare our custom
attribute along with the three
we selected from mditemh:
timestamp, display name,
and text content.
The last thing we need to edit
is our display attributes.
And this is the subset of attributes
we would actually like the finder or
the Spotlight menu-- the Spotlight
menu will display in a tooltip or the
finder will display in that little
More Info panel in the Get Info window.
And here we're just going
to use display name.
So with that saved, we're actually ready
to build our plug-in.
And the next thing we want to do is
actually set up so that we're able to
debug our plug-in right here in Xcode.
So to do that, under your project window,
you'll create a new custom executable...
and point that at the MD import tool.
Now, once we've got a custom
executable pointer at MD import,
we basically need to set up the
arguments that we're going to pass
every time MD import is invoked.
And we'll also be taking a
look at how to run MD import
directly from the command line.
But the basic arguments we
want for debugging are...
We'll add a -d2,
which will tell MD import to
spit out some nice diagnostic
information to the console window.
And we'll add a -g,
with the path to our built importer.
And the last thing we want to
do is set the path argument.
In this case,
I've got a preexisting... file,
and I just want to drag and drop.
Good,
'cause I didn't want to try to type that.
And with all that set,
we can actually go ahead and
save our custom executable and
switch back to our source files.
And we'll set a breakpoint right
in Xcode where we would want to
check to see that we've successfully
loaded our document from disk.
Now if we select Build and Go...
So for some reason it
didn't hit the breakpoint,
but we'll pretend it did.
So normally Xcode would break right here,
and you'd be able to actually
examine the values that were
pulled in by your importer and
look at them right here in Xcode.
So with...
The other way to debug your importer
is actually using a terminal window.
There are some handy options provided by
the MD import tool that you can use to
look at the scalability of your importer,
see that you're getting
the data you expected,
et cetera.
So one of the first options we'll
look at here is the -p option.
-p basically tells MD import to
collect and format statistics about the
performance of your importer plug-in.
So what I'm going to do here is
actually tell it to run the importer
plug-in we just built on all of
the cookies that I've currently
accumulated on my drive here.
And we can see that the total processing
time for this plug-in for all the files,
for all 31 files, was, you know,
under a second, which looks good.
And we also get a nice summary
of the most expensive files
for your importer plug-in.
So if you do have performance
issues on an importer,
this is a really good tool
for sort of isolating,
you know, if it's a certain category of
files that you have issues with
or if it's a specific file.
Another nice tool to work with is MDLS.
MDLS will basically list metadata
that's been stored already in the
Spotlight index and let you see that.
So...
Let's take a look at an MDLS command
for one of the files we just imported.
And we can see a nice little summary.
We can see our content type tree.
We noticed that our com example fortune
ID custom attribute was imported.
That's a good sign that
our importer was running.
And we also got a non-default
display name with the text
of our fortune message.
So that's another positive
indication that our importer
has indexed this content.
And the last thing you want
to do is test with mdefind.
So basically,
mdefind will let us search for
here any item in Spotlight's
database which has a com example
fortune ID attribute of any value.
And in this case,
it's only going to be our document
type since that's a custom attribute.
And we can see how that shows us all of
those on the locally attached storage.
So the final place to look, of course,
is what your end users are going
to see after you've gone through
the work of building this plug-in.
And we can see if we now do a search,
In the Spotlight menu,
one of our hits is indeed
one of our Fortune files.
And if we let the tooltip pop up,
we can see the display name,
and we can also see the path to
where that's stored on our drive.
And that concludes the first demo.
Thank you.
Thank you, Kaelin.
Now, when you've built your plug-in,
you want to reinforce that
you're going to want to test it.
Kaelin showed how you
do your basic testing.
You can do it from within Xcode,
or you can do the testing from
the terminal command line.
It's important you test
against all the architectures.
You're going to want to test PowerPC,
32-bit Intel, and 64-bit Intel.
If your machine is running 64 bits,
you can force the importer into
32-bit mode by prefixing it on
the command line with arch-i386.
And that option forces the following
command to always run in 32-bit mode.
The -d option is also extremely useful.
Those are debugging options
that will display progress that
the importer is making as it's
working through your files.
It's very, very useful when you're having
problems with your plug-in.
And of course, the -p option to give you
performance statistics.
Now, here's some goals for testing.
Performance is extremely critical.
Oftentimes, people think in terms of,
"Well, I ran the importer
against my top 10 files,
and it works fine." But your users
may not have 10 of your file.
They may not have 100 of your file.
They might have thousands,
tens of thousands,
or even hundreds of thousands of files.
And the cumulative time it takes
to index all of those files
can be very painful for a user.
I really want to encourage
people to use every performance
tool to really streamline the
process of importing your data.
And because your importer
plug-in will be run many,
many times, it's important that
you don't leak memory.
Or file descriptors,
or any other resource.
And the worst sin of all is crashing.
The time it takes to handle a crash
and relaunch the importer with your
plug-in again can add up to a lot of
time if there are frequent crashes.
So test against a lot of files,
and test against edge case or odd
or even corrupt and broken files
to make sure that your plug-in
is stable and good for the users.
And again, test it on every architecture.
Three-way testing is very important.
Now where do you put the plug-in
when you're done building it?
The primary location is
in /library/spotlight.
This is where most people
will put their plug-ins.
You can also put it directly
into your application.
That way,
if the user has your application,
they have your plug-in.
But it's very important when you put
it there that you copy your plug-in
to where it's going to finally be.
Don't use a symlink or other
trick to make it appear there.
That's because Spotlight
watches the locations where
your plug-in is allowed to be,
and when it notices a
new plug-in arriving,
it will add it into the
pool of available plug-ins.
If you simply put a symlink there,
Spotlight might not notice the
addition of the new plug-in.
Because there's multiple
places to put a plugin,
there's a precedence issue.
Spotlight will first look
in /library/spotlight.
Then it will look in
system/library/spotlight.
And then failing that,
it will look inside of an application
to see if you've got an embedded plugin.
So if there are two different
plugins that both want that UTI type,
the first one found will be the
one used to import that file.
You cannot daisy chain
or combine importers.
One plugin will get the go.
That plugin imports that particular file.
The last thing that Spotlight brings
to the equation is an API to allow
you to search within your application.
Now, how does that work?
We take the existing architecture
and we add in the ability
to have application queries.
Those queries will come
from your application.
Now, you're going to use the
Spotlight query language,
which for people who program in
C should look reasonably familiar.
You're going to compare
attributes to values,
and the files that match that
query statement will be the
files returned from the query.
You have basic data types: strings,
numbers, dates.
They can be scalar, that is,
individual values,
or they can be arrays of values.
And you have the expected
string operators,
equality.
You can test a wildcard to test if
a string partially matches a value.
And you have your normal
comparison values that you're
used to for numerical values,
as well as a range detection,
which allows you to specify
a range of numbers or dates
that will match your test.
You can group these things together
to make more complicated queries,
queries that match multiple tests.
And you can use the asterisk for the
wildcard to mean any metadata field.
And then the last example,
if any metadata field has
the word Boston in it,
that will return true.
It's important to note, however,
the KMDItem text content
doesn't fall into the star.
That specific value must
be tested explicitly.
Now, string comparisons,
it's actually fairly sophisticated.
Your users might be surprised or
actually disappointed if you do your
string compares as exact matches,
which is the default,
because case may differ or other minor
things that the user wouldn't think
ought to make the test fail will fail.
So you can make your
comparison case insensitive.
You can make it diacritic
insensitive if you're going to
be having foreign language words.
And you can do word-based testing
where you can say that if the
word appears anywhere in a phrase,
for example,
you want to go ahead and match.
This type of comparison is always
done for KMDItem text content.
And it's important to note that
these modifiers can be combined,
and we'll see how that works in a moment.
You can also do dates.
Now, as a convenience,
there's multiple ways to specify a date.
You can specify a date of right
now or this week or last week.
You can provide your own explicit
date by using an ISO format.
You can say today.
You can also provide for all of
the different date formats a range,
a relative offset.
So you could say in the bottom example,
today minus 12,
which really means 12 days ago.
You can combine all of these
capabilities to make queries.
You can, for example,
query if the number of pages in a
document is larger than some value.
Or if any author in a potential
array of authors matches Frank Burns,
and you're not really worried
about case or diacritic and you're
willing to do a word search,
or you can see the kind of query
that's generated by the spotlight menu,
where basically if you were to search
for the word apple in the spotlight menu,
it would actually say if any
metadata field matches the word
apple followed by anything,
case and diacritic insensitive,
or if any text content matches
apple followed by anything,
case and diacritic insensitive,
return that file.
So that's how the spotlight menu works.
And last,
this is a query that says you want
to find all of the text files that
have been opened in the last 12 days.
It's pretty useful.
You can make more complicated queries.
You can find all the photographs taken
with a Canon camera and a specific lens.
You can find all the files
that have a specific DPI range.
Or you can look for sound effects that
mention the word "thunder" that are
between one and five seconds in length.
Now, to actually do the queries,
you're going to have to use the API.
And there's two basic
APIs that you have a choice of.
The MD Query Ref API is a lower level,
more flexible API at the
core foundation level.
And you have NSMetadataQuery,
which is a higher level
KVO compliant type syntax.
And KVO is Key Value Observer.
This is useful where you're doing
AppKit programming and you want to
be notified when key values change,
your observer will be notified.
And that makes it very easy to put
together higher level applications very,
very easily.
We're going to take a look
at the lower level API first.
There's three basic flavors of query.
You can do a synchronous query,
where your code will stop
until the query is complete.
You can do an asynchronous query,
where your code will
continue to run normally,
and then the query will complete
and you'll have your answers.
Or you can do a live updated query,
where your query will run as long as
you want it to run in the background.
And as the user lives on the system,
and files are moved and
changed and updated,
your query will be updated with the
results live as the user's doing things.
Let's talk about the
synchronous query first.
It's the most simple.
There's three basic steps.
We're going to create an MD Query ref.
We're going to ask it
to execute the query.
And we're going to take a look at what
Spotlight sends back as the results.
Creating the query is
very straightforward.
We're going to create the query
and we're going to give it a query
string which basically says we
want to find all the text files,
the plain text files on the system.
Very simple query.
Then we're going to execute the query
and we're going to tell Spotlight that we
want the query to execute synchronously.
This clock until all of the
query results are available.
And then when the results are in,
you can get a count of how
many results there were.
And you can iterate over those results,
taking a look at each MD item
ref that's returned in turn.
An MD item is basically a stand-in
for each file that's being returned.
And you can ask that MD item for any
attributes that you want about that file.
And in this case, we're going to iterate
over all of the results,
and we're going to get the
display name for every file that
was returned from this query.
Very, very simple.
But your users probably don't want
your application to come to a dead
stop while you're doing a query.
So you might find more value
in an asynchronous query.
Now when you do an asynchronous query,
I first want to introduce
some notifications.
Because your query is going
to run in the background,
you're probably going to
want to be informed as to
the progress of your query.
So you can get a progress notification,
which will occur at intervals
while the query is ongoing to
let you know incremental results,
and then you're going to get a did
finish notification that lets you know
that the query is complete and you
will not be receiving any more results.
Now let's take a look at
how we're going to do this.
We're going to create a
query like we did before.
This time we're going to register some
callbacks for those notifications.
We're going to define those callbacks.
We're actually going to run the query,
and then we're going to handle the
results when the query is complete.
Let's take a look at that.
We're going to do the
same query we did before.
We want to find all the plain
text files on the system.
And then we're going to
register for our callbacks.
We want our progress notification
that will let us know as the query
is being handled and results are
incrementally being returned.
And we're going to want to register
for our Did Finish notification so that
we know that all of the results are
available and that the query is complete.
And then we're going to
define the callbacks.
Let's take a look at the did finish.
When the notification comes in,
it's easy to obtain the
query from the notification,
and then you can call your
own function that will process
the results when you are done.
I'm not going to cover the
progress notification yet.
I'm going to come back
to that in a few moments.
When you actually want
to execute the query,
this time we're going to pass zero
instead of the synchronous statement.
So your query will execute,
but your code will continue
to run in your run loop.
This code will not block here.
This will run in the background
and the remainder of your
code will execute as normal.
When the results come in,
your notification will be called and then
your notification could call a routine
that might look something like this.
Just like with the synchronous case,
we're going to take a
look at the result count.
We're going to iterate over all of the
results and pull out whatever fields
that you find appropriate for that query.
That's it.
Let's move to a more advanced query,
though.
Let's take a look at a live query.
This is really the most
interesting of them.
We have to introduce a new notification.
You're still going to receive
progress notifications as the
results are initially coming in.
And you're still going to
get a did finish when the
initial results are complete,
when the first phase of the query is
done and you have what's currently
on the disk that matches your query.
But after that, you will receive did
update notifications.
And these notifications will let you
know that something's changed on the
file system and files now match your
query or they've been modified in
your query or that they no longer
match your query so that you can
do something live with the results.
Creating this kind of query is a little
more complicated than the previous,
but not by much.
We're going to create the query.
We're going to register for
our notification callbacks.
We're going to get the initial
results finished callback,
which indicates that all the
initial results are done.
Once they're up, we're actually going
to execute the query.
We're going to handle
the initial results,
and then we're going
to listen for updates.
That's the new step.
We're going to listen for updates.
We create the same query we did before.
We want to find all of
the plain text files.
We're going to register for a progress
notification because we want to see
the results as they're coming in.
We're going to register for
the Did Finish notification
because we want to know when
the initial results are done,
when the initial scan of everything
that's already on the disk is complete.
And then we're going to want
the Did Update notifications
for the liveness of the query.
This is telling us what's happened
after the query was done so that
we can keep up live as it changes.
The results finished callback looks
very much the same as the previous one.
We're going to call our handler when
the initial stage of the query is done.
And then we're going
to execute our query.
And this time we're going to tell
Spotlight that we want updates.
This call will not block.
Your code will continue to
run as you expect it to.
But now you're going to be getting
your query results as well as updates
to the query as it progresses.
You're going to handle the query
results like we did before,
but notice there's two extra calls.
We're going to disable
updates at the beginning.
We're going to look at the
results and then we're going to
re-enable updates at the bottom.
This is very, very important.
When you're looking at these results,
this is a live query.
And right then,
the user may be changing the file system
in ways that cause new files to be added
into your results or files to be removed.
And by disabling updates,
you prevent the results from changing
while you're looking at them.
When you're done looking at them,
you would re-enable updates and
they will continue to come in.
And if you remember when
I said I would talk about the
progress notification later,
this is when I want to talk about it.
Because the progress
notification is called while
your query is being executed,
more results may be
coming in at any time.
So in any progress handler
that you write for synchronous
or asynchronous or live query,
you should always disable updates
and enable updates when you're
done if you choose to look at the
results during the progress update.
Now, you're going to get your callback
that indicates the query updated.
Something has changed in
the results of your query.
When you make the callback,
you can obtain the query from the
notification and you can take a
look to see what items were added
into this query result a moment ago.
For example, a file might have been saved
that suddenly matches your query.
You'd be notified about
the new added item.
You can also take a look
at what items changed.
These are files that used to match
your query and still match your query,
but something in the file changed
that you might want to take a look at.
And that would be listed here.
You could look through this array
and find the list of all of the
items that actually changed.
And last, files might have been
removed from your query.
That is, they no longer match your query.
As an example, the user updated a file,
but he changed the contents of the
file in a way that your query is
no longer interested in that file.
And so you'll be notified that files
have fallen out of your results and
that are no longer matching your query.
Now let's move on to the
higher level NS metadata query.
This is the Cocoa approach instead
of the core foundation approach.
It has two flavors.
You can't do a synchronous query here,
but you can do an asynchronous query,
and you can also do an
asynchronous with updates,
a live query.
Let's take a look at how
we're going to do that.
There's four basic steps.
We're going to define
and initialize our class.
This is a little more sophisticated.
We're using object-oriented programming.
We're going to listen for notifications
just like we did in the earlier examples.
We're going to set up
and execute the query,
and then we're going to
process the query results.
The defining is pretty straightforward.
In whatever class you define,
you're probably going to want to
put an NS Metadata query reference
as part of your class declaration.
And then in your
constructor for your class,
in your init method,
you'll do whatever you would
normally do for your own class,
but you'll create the query object,
you'll set up the notifications,
and in this case,
we're going to listen to the
gathering progress notification.
This is the notification you
get while the results are
being gathered incrementally.
And you can also register for the
Did Finish notification because
you're going to want to know
when those results are complete.
Now we've set things up,
we have to actually
provide the notification.
This is a simple handling for
the did finish notification.
Now notice we have to do
something a little different here.
When we're told that our
initial query is complete,
we need to stop the query.
Otherwise,
this is going to be a live query
and it's going to continue.
But by stopping it here,
we've done an asynchronous query that
completes when your results are gathered.
And when the results are available,
you'll notify yourself with
the query did finish method.
Now we're going to actually
prepare the search itself.
We need to set up sort descriptors.
And what sort descriptors
tell the system is,
"I'm going to get a lot of results back,
but I want them sorted in a particular
order," which is actually very
convenient because it eliminates
the need for you to have to sort.
They're going to come
back in a specific order.
In this particular case,
we're going to sort by
the item display name.
You can sort by as many
fields as you want,
and they'll be sorted and
sub-sorted as appropriate.
Then you're going to set your predicate.
That's your search term.
And in this particular case,
we're going to search for any
kind of image on the system.
Now, this uses NSPredicate,
which is very similar to the
Spotlight query language,
but it's not quite identical.
You're going to want to take a look at
the NSPredicate documentation to see
the differences in the query syntax.
And then we're actually
going to start the query.
Now, when the results come back and
your call is activated to indicate
that the results are complete,
just like before,
you can get the result count,
iterate over the results,
and pull out whatever attributes
for each file are important for you.
In this example,
we're going to pull out the display name
for every file that matches our query.
Now let's move on to a live query.
It's very similar.
The only difference is that we're
going to be listening to updates.
We're going to define and initialize
our class in the same way.
We're going to do a
results finish callback.
We're going to actually
execute the query,
process our results,
and then we're going to go into a mode
where we're listening for these updates.
We define the class exactly the same:
Provide an NS Metadata query
in and amongst your own fields.
We're going to set up
the class the same way.
We're going to ask for
the same notifications,
the progress, the did finish.
We're going to add in a new notification.
We want to get the did update
notification that lets you know
that something's changed and
your query should be updated.
When we get our progress,
when we get our "Did
Finish" notification,
there's an important change here:
don't stop the query.
If you stop the query,
you've made this into a
simple asynchronous query.
We want this to be live,
so if you don't stop it here,
it will just naturally
become a live query,
and you will receive the updates as
you expect as the file system changes.
It gets the same way.
We're going to look for all images,
and then we're going to start our query.
Now, because this is a live query,
we're going to want to disable
updates when the results are complete.
Otherwise, the results might be changing
out from under us and lead
to very unexpected results.
So we're going to disable the updates,
and then we're going to iterate
over each result returned.
And in this case,
we're going to pull out the display
name attribute from each file.
You can pull out, of course,
any attribute that's interesting
to you or useful for your query.
And then when we're done
looking at the results,
we're going to re-enable the updates so
that they can continue to be monitored.
Now, when the updates come in,
you're going to be notified through
the query update notification.
But unlike the lower level MD Query Ref,
you can't find out directly
which files were added,
removed, or changed.
You simply know that files were changed
and you should re-look at the results.
When you do things higher level in Cocoa,
though,
because of the way you can do KVO stuff,
Key Value Observer,
you can have the results
automatically update screen widgets,
et cetera,
and Kaelin will show an example
of that in a few minutes.
Now, when you do your queries,
there's a lot that you can do to
make them run significantly faster.
[Transcript missing]
We also can dramatically increase
the performance of the query if
we fetch the attributes with the
query and we do the sorting for you.
If you recall when we created the query,
the last field was null
when we create the query.
We had a query string,
but we didn't specify
the last possible value.
That are sorting attributes.
And in this particular case,
we're going to provide an array to
say that we want to sort our results
by the title and then sub-sort
the results by the display name.
This has two benefits.
Spotlight will return the results
to you already sorted in the
way that you want it sorted.
And those two attributes will be
returned directly with your query.
When you ask for information
about the returned items,
those two fields will
already be available to you,
making it significantly faster for
you to actually get the attributes
for what you're looking up.
If you don't specify it,
you're not going to get the attributes.
If you don't specify a sorting
order and you ask for an
attribute for a returned item,
that will require a
round trip to the server,
which adds quite a bit
of expense to your query.
Now we're going to see how
we take advantage of that.
When you're fetching your attributes,
if you recall, we got the result count.
And then we iterated over every result,
taking a look at the empty item,
and then asking that empty
item for a specific attribute.
In this case,
we're asking for the display name.
Now this is slow because it
makes a round trip display name.
What I'm going to recommend you do is
if you've specified sorting attributes,
you get the attributes this way.
Taking the query, you say you want the
display name for each item,
and we will directly give you the
display name that has been prefetched.
This is a significant optimization
for how fast you can get
results for your queries.
Now we're going to
take a look at Katelyn.
will have a demo for us of
writing code to do a live query.
Okay, so you'll recall our
Fortunes application.
Let's take a look and see how
we've actually implemented that.
We started with a simple
Cocoa project template,
and you can see here we've got a--
our main window with a table view and
a nice little search control here.
So the--the way this application
works is we actually run-- when the
application is launched a Spotlight query
that finds all of the Fortune files,
gathers all their display names,
and then we just plot
that into the table view,
and we take advantage of NS Metadata
Query Class's key value observation
compliance to be able to wire all this up
with Cocoa bindings and very little code.
So let's take a look at what--
what's actually involved there.
First thing we'll look at is
our Fortunes App Delegate class.
So in typical Cocoa fashion,
all of our code for this application
really just lives in the applications
delegate that we've written here.
And if we pop open the delegate,
we can see here it's got a
slot for the NSMetadata query,
which is the Cocoa version of a
query class that Andy outlined
in the second part of his slides.
We also have an IB outlet here for
wiring up the search control to a
search string so our code can get at it.
And we have an IB outlet for
getting at the table view.
So it's really a pretty
simple application delegate.
There's a little more work
to setting up the nib,
and some of it's a little
bit less intuitive.
But basically, to make bindings work
with an NSMetadata query,
what you want to do is set up an array
controller to contain the results.
So what we've done here
is actually dropped an
NSArray controller into our nib file,
and we've set up a little bit of a code
: So, we set its mode to be class, which,
when the object is reconstituted
and instantiated from the nib,
basically configures it to display
objects of a particular class.
And we set the class to NSMetadataItem.
So, NSMetadataItem is each result
from an NSMetadata query
gives you an NSMetadataItem.
And the other really nice thing we
can do to facilitate key-value binding
is to come down here and just add
individual keys for the attributes
that we want to be able to bind to.
So,
you can see here I've pre-populated this
with keys for our com example fortune
ID attribute that we defined and also
KMDItemTimeStamp and KMDItemDisplayName.
We use the timestamp for sorting and
the display name is what we actually
want to populate the table view with.
Switching over to look at the bindings,
we can see that the content
array for this particular array
controller is bound to query.results.
So that key path
basically is going to go--
Back to our app delegate,
find the query attribute that
we were looking at and then
bind to its results path.
And sort of through the magic of KVO,
as our live query executes
and new results come in,
these bindings will fire,
the array controller will update,
and that internal update our UI,
all without us writing any
code to explicitly do that.
And then the other thing we do is we have
the table column actually referencing
this same array controller to get values
for each of the table column cells.
So now, let's, without further ado,
get to the code.
The actual app delegate
is also pretty simple.
In our initialization method,
we go ahead and allocate an NS metadata
query and bind that to ourself.
And then we prepare the query by
setting an array of sort descriptors.
So if you're familiar with Core Data,
this is exactly the same
sort descriptor class that
Core Data uses in its infrastructure.
And we basically,
we create an array of these
and set it up so that our query
results will be returned to us
sorted first by the timestamp,
then by the display name,
then by the Fortune ID.
Now, as Andy was alluding earlier,
this has the side effect of also
configuring the framework so that as
results are fetched from the live query,
these attribute values also come
back with the results without an
additional round trip to the server.
Looking at how we actually
start the query running,
we have a convenience method
here because we call it from
a couple of different places.
I named it Reset Query Predicate.
Basically,
we start out with a simple predicate
that will search for all items
in Spotlight with a content type
of com example fortune cookie.
So what this gets us is, by default,
a simple predicate,
or a simple query predicate,
that finds all the fortune cookies
on all of our attached local storage
and displays those in our table view.
Now,
if the search string's been filled in
through the interface builder binding
that we looked at in the nib file,
we actually build a
more complex predicate,
a compound predicate that has
a sub-predicate of KMDItem
text content like case,
diacritic, insensitive,
whatever the user's entered search
string was with an asterisk appended.
So basically what we're asking
Spotlight for is a case,
diacritic, insensitive,
and word-matching prefix search.
This is the same kind of search that the
finder and the search menu do by default,
and it's what users will
typically expect to see if your
application has a search field.
Now,
this is a simple version of this in a
more complex application with more rich
types of metadata about the content.
You might have other options as well,
but this is kind of a good example
of setting up a default search.
Again, if the user has provided
a search predicate,
we go ahead and create a
compound predicate just by anding
together these two predicates.
And then one way or another,
we set the query's predicate and
we start the query to running.
[Transcript missing]
Now, to demonstrate that this is
actually a live search going on,
let's do a...
Search that doesn't have any matches,
and then we'll flip to the finder,
and I've actually got a fortune on my
disk that does have that text in it,
but it's got the wrong
extension right now.
So this sort of...
helps drive home the significance of how
the UTIs and extensions and everything
map into the Spotlight infrastructure.
You'll see when we come into the Finder
and change the extension on this file,
Finder pops up this dialog.
Now, one of the reasons that it's
doing this is we're actually
switching the UTI definition,
and that's gonna have side effects.
For one thing,
it's gonna cause the importer
that we wrote in our first demo
to be executed on this file
because it's now a different UTI.
So we'll go ahead and click Use Fortune.
And when we do that,
if we bring our app back to the front,
you see the importer ran,
the plugin imported all the
metadata that we had defined.
It pushed that into Spotlight.
That new data, that new item,
now matches the live query
that we have executing.
So those results get sent to us,
and KVO populates it into our table view,
and it all just kind of happens,
which is pretty cool.
And that concludes our second demo.
Thank you.
Thank you, Kaelin.
Using Spotlight, you can really add a lot
to your applications.
You can help your users find your data,
which they're going to
really want to be able to do,
especially if they've got a lot of it,
and you'll be able to have your
application use the power of the search
capability of Spotlight to help your
users find their data or other data
that's beneficial to your application.
I want to stress again the importance
of testing it three-way universal.
Test it against PowerPC.
Test it against Intel 32-bit.
And please test it against Intel 64-bit.
And test the hell out of it.
Test performance.
Test that it's stable.
Make sure that your user's going to have
a good experience importing your data.
And consider adding more Spotlight
searches to your applications.
Your users can really benefit from it.
We're going to have a lab today at 5:00.
And if anybody has any questions,
about how to import files
or how to do queries,
I want to encourage everyone
to come down to the lab.
Lots of times at these labs,
people have left with fully functional
importers ready to go for their data.
So if you have that kind
of work you need to do,
come on down and talk to us.
We would really love to see you.
If you need more information,
this is the contact
information for our evangelist,
as well as a pointer
to our documentation.
If you go to developer.apple.com
and search for Spotlight
overview or UTI information,
you'll find the links that you need
to develop applications for Spotlight.
Other sessions, which probably have
already happened by now,
but you'll be able to see on the DVD that
you're going to get for attending,
these other things may help.
Using Quick Look,
how to use the file system efficiently,
and as well, of course,
an encouragement to come to our lab.